The morning has come to me and the whole universe belongs to Allah, the Lord of the worlds, O Allah, I ask of you the good of the day, it's success and aid and it's nur (celestial light) and barakaat (blessings) and seek hidayah (guidance) and seek refuge from the evil in it (this day) and from the evil of that which is to come later.All praise be to Allah who has forgiven us today and not destroyed us due to our sin.The evening has come to me and the whole universe belongs to Allah who is The Lord of the worlds. O Allah, I ask of you the good of the night, it's success and aid and its nur (celestial light) and barakaat (blessings) and seek hidayat (guidance) and refuge from the evil of this night and the evil that is to come later.(Abu Dawood)O Allah, this is the time of the coming of the night and the passing of the day and the voices of those calling You to forgive us.(Miskhaat)We have made (started) the morning (and night) in whose Name nothing in the skies and the earth can harm and He is the All-hearing, the All-knowing.(Tirmidhi)It is narrated by Abu Dawood that if one recites this dua in the morning, no unforeseen calamity will come to him.(Miskhat)So remember Allah in the evening and the morning. To him is the praise in the Heavens and the Earth and in the last hours and when it is noon. He brings forth the living from the dead and the dead from the living and He revives the earth after it is dead. And even so you shall be brought forth".Ha. Meem, The sending down of this book is from Allah who is the All-Mighty, the All-Knowing, The Forgiver of sins and the Acceptor of repentance, Severe in retribution, Bountiful there is no ilah but He, Unto Him is our return"    Allah! There is no ilah (deity worthy of worship) but He The Living, The Eternal One. Neither slumber, nor sleep overtakes Him. To Him belonges whatever is in the Heavens and on the earth. Who is he that can intercede with Him but by His permission? He knows what is before and what is behind them. They encompass nothing of His knowledge which He will. His Throne extends over the Heavens and the Earth, and the preservation of both does not weary Him. He is the Exalted The Immense One.(Qur'an 3:25)Translation: "O Allah, whatever favours You have bestowed upon me and all other creations is only from you. You are One, You have no partners. Praise and Shukr (thanks) be to You".If recited in the night, then recite مَا أمَْسيَ in place of مَا أَصْبَحَ بِيTranslation: I am pleased with Allah as my Lord, Islam as my Deen and Muhammad (SAW) as my Nabi.(Tirmidhi)"He is Allah, there is no ilah but He, He is the knower of the unseen and the witness He is the All-Merciful, the All compassionate. He is Allah, there is no ilah but He. He is the king, the Holy, the Giver of Safety. The Taker-in shelter the All-Mighty, the omnipotent, the All-Sublime. Allah is Pure and Pure of what they associate (with Him). He is Allah, the Creator, the One who is Perfect. To Him belong names Most Excellent. All that is in the heavens and the earth, glorify Him and He is the All-Mighty, the All-Wise".Ataa bin Abi Rahaa (R.A.) narrates that Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) has stated that if a person recites Surah Yaseen early in the morning then his need for the day will be fullfilled. (Mishkat)Benefit: The recitation of Surah Ikhlaas, Surah Falaq and Surah Naas three times each in the mornings and evenings, has been encouraged in the Ahadith.(Hisn-ulHasin)Abdullah bin Masood (R.A.) states that Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) has said that the person who recites Suratul Waqia (para 27) every night, will never be poverty stricken (hungry) (Baihagi in Shabatul Iman)in Surah Al-Imran till the end of the Surah on any night or part of the night, will receive the reward of performing his Salaat for the whole night.(Mishkat)Jabir (R.A.) states that Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) never slept before reciting Surah Alif Laam Meem Sajda (21 para) and Surah Tabarakal Lazi. (Mishkat)Abdullah bin Masood (R.A.) narrates that Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) has stated that the person who recites the last two ayats of Suratul Baqarah till the end, then these two ayats will be sufficient for him, i.e. Allah will protect him from all evil and ploys.(Bukhari, Muslim)When retiring to sleep, make wudhu, dust off the bed three times, lie on the right side, place the right hand under the head or cheeks and recite the following dua three times.(Mishkat and Hsinul Hasin, Bukhari Muslim)Translation:"O Allah, save me from the punishment on the Day when You will gather Your servants".بِاسْمِكَ رَبِّي وَضَعْتُ جَنْبِي وَبِكَ أَرْفَعُهُ إِنْ أَمْسَكْتَ نَفْسِي فَارْحَمْهَا وَإِنْ أَرْسَلْتَهَا فَاحْفَظْهَا بِمَا تَحْفَظُ بِهِ عِبَادَكَ الصَّالِحِينَ"Oh my Lord, I have taken Your name and placed myself on my side and by Your power will rise up again. If you take my soul whilst I am sleeping (grant me death) then have mercy on my soul and if you leave me (let me live) by your power protect me by that with which you have protected your righteous servants".(Bukhari, Muslim)O Allah, by Your name I live and die".(Bukhari, Muslim)"I submit my life to you, I turn towards You and leave my work unto you, I lean on you, desire your boons and fear you as there is no other salvation besides you. I believe in the kitab (Book) you have revealed and in the Rasul(Prophet) you have sent.Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) showed (taught a Sahabi) this dua and said: "If after reading it you die in the night, then it is as if you have died on 'Natural Deen' and if you awake in the morning alive then you will have good fortune".(Mishkat)Anas (R.A.) narrates that Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) said that if a person retires to bed on the side and recites Surah Fathiha and Surah Ikhlaas (Qul huwa- Allaho Ahad) he is immune from everything besides death.(Hisnul Hasan from Albazr)Sahabi (R.A.) requested Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) that Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) teach him something to recite at the time of retiring to bed. Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) said: "Recite Qul Ya Ayuhal Kafiroon, for in it (there is an announcement) to refrain from shirk.(Mishkat from Tirmidhi)In some ahadith it is stated that one should sleep after reciting (i.e. not to talk after reciting it).(Hisnul Hasin from Albazr)Ayesha (R.A.) narrates that when Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) used to go to the room for sleep, he used to recite Suras Ikhlaas, Falaq, Nass and blow onto his hand (palms) in such a manner that the saliva would drop on them and then he would rub them over his body three times starting from the front of the face.(Bukhari, Muslim)Beside this he would recite33 اللَّهُ أَكْبَرُ34, الْحَمْدُ لِلَّهِ  33,سُبْحَانَ اللَّهِ ُ.He also used to recite Ayatul Qursi as Allah has stipulated that the reciter will be protected throughout the night by the angels and the Satan will not come near.(Bukhari)Its virtues are that all the reciter's sins will be forgiven even if it be equal to the extent of the foam in the ocean.(Tirmidhi)Recite Bismillah while closing doors, covering utensils, and putting off the light (candles etc.)(Mishkat)Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) said that when a person enters his bed (to sleep), an angel and a Shaitaan surround him. The Shaitaan whispers 'your awakening will end in evil' and the angel says' end in good". One sleeps after engaging in dhikr, the angels will protect him throughout the night. In order to gain the protection of the angels, it is wise to engage in Dhikr and then sleep.(Hisnul Hasin)O Allah the stars have gone far away and the eyes are rested. You are Alive and Infinite, You do not slumber nor does sleep overtake You. Oh Alive and the Everlasting One, grant me rest tonight and let my eyes sleep (close).(Hisnul Hasin)With the total words of Allah, I seek protection from His wrath, from His punishment and from the servants evil and from the whispers of Satan and I seek protection from (these) coming to me.(Hisnul Hasin)"I seek refuge in Allah from the accursed Satan and from the evil of this dream. "The dream will not cause any harm. (Misjkat, Hisnul Hasin)It is a great sin to conjure a false dream and narrate it.(Bukhari) All praise be to Allah, who gave us life after killing us (sleep is a form of death) and to Him will we be raised and returned".(Bukhari, Muslim)"All Praise be to Allah, who raises the dead to life and Who is in control of everything".(Hisnul Hasin)اللَّهُمَّ إِنِّي أَعُوذُ بِكَ مِنْ ضِيقِ الدُّنْيَا وَضِيقِ يَوْمِ الْقِيَامَة all 10 times اللَّهُ أَكْبَرُ, الْحَمْدُ لِلَّهِ  ,سُبْحَانَ اللَّهِ وَبِحَمْدِهِ  ,سُبْحَانَ الْمَلِكِ الْقُدُّوسِ  أَسْتَغْفِرُ اللَّهَ  ,لَا إِلَهَ إِلَّا اللَّهُBismillah "In the name of Allah"It is in the hadith that between the eyes of Satan and the private parts of man Bismillah is a barrier therefore, this dua should be recited.O Allah. I seek refuge in You from the male female evil and Jinns".(Mishkat, Hisnul Hasin)"(O Allah) I seek forgiveness and pardon from You"."All Praise be to Allah, who removed the difficulty from me and gave me ease (relief)". (Mishkat)I begin in the name of Allah, who is the Most Merciful, Most Gracious".It is stated in the hadith that one should begin wudhu with Allah's name. No words have been specified and our elders read the above. It is recorded in some ahadith that wudhu is valid although no "Bismillah" is recited.(Mishkat)O Allah, forgive my sins and widen my grave and grant barakat in my Rizq (sustenance)".(Hisnul Hasin)Look towards the sky and recite:I testify that there is no one worthy of worship besides Allah. He is all by Himself and has no partner and I testify that Muhammad is Allah's Rasul (Messenger)".Eight doors of Jannah will be open for the reciter of this dua. He will be able to enter from whichever door he pleases. (Mishkat)It is recorded in the same narration that the dua should be recited three times.(Hisnul Hasin)"O Allah, count me (make me) among those who seek forgiveness and amongst those who stay clean".(Hisnul Hasin)"O Allah, You are pure, I praise You and testify that only You are worthy of worship and I seek forgiveness from You (I turn to You for forgiveness).(Hisnul Hasin, from Mustadrak) "O Allah, give me Nur in my heart, me eyes, ears, on my right side, on my left side. Specify Nur for me and my progeny. Grant Nur in my flesh, my blood, my hair, my skin, my tongue and my nafs (soul) and grant Nur all around me."(Hisnul Hasin) "O Lord, forgive my sins and open the doors of mercy for me".(Mishkat)"O Allah, open the doors of mercy".(Mishkat)"Allah is Pure and all Praise is to Him. Besides Him there is no one worthy of worship, He is the Greatest."(Mishkat, Chapter on Masjid)"O Lord, pardon my sins and open the doors of virtue for me".(Mishkat)O Allah, I ask of you, Your Fadl (goodness).""I testify that there is no one worthy of worship besides Allah. He is all by Himself and has no partner and I testify that Muhammad (S.A.W.) is His servant and Rasul. I am pleased with Allah as my Lord, Muhammad (S.A.W.) as my Rasul and Islam as my Deen. It is stated in the hadith that the sins of a person are forgiven if the above dua is recited on hearing the athaan.(Muslim) It is stated in the Ahadith that whosoever answers the muazzin there is Jannah for him.(Hisnul Hasin).The reply to Azzan is simple repeat all its words except for the mentioned above. "O Allah, the Lord of this total call (invitation, proclamation) and the Lord of the Salat to begin, grant Muhammad 'intercession' ( a status) and grant him superiority and let him reach Mooqame Mahmood which You have promised, for definitely You do not go back on Your promises".(Mishkat)By reciting this dua, the intercession of Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) becomes wajib.(Mishkat)stand up for Salaat, recite:Allah keep (Salaat) perpetual".(Mishkat)"In the name of Allah, (I have completed the Salaat) who is the only one worthy of worhsip and who is the Most Merciful, the Most Gracious. O Allah remove from me all worries and sorrows".(Hisnul Hasin)"O Allah, You are safe, and from You we receive safety. You are Blessed, Lofty and Dignified"."Besides Allah, there is no one worthy of worship, He is all by Himself and has no partner. His is the Kingdom, to Him is all praise and He has control over everything".(Bukhari, Muslim)"O Allah, no one can stop what You give and no one can give what You stop and the wealth of the wealthy cannot prevent Your punishment".(Mishkat)"O Allah, I seek refuge from cowardice, miserliness and childness in old age, from the trials of this world and punishment of the grave".(Bukhari)"O Allah, I seek refuge in You from Kufr, poverty and the punishment of the grave".(Hisnul Hasin)"O Allah, forgive my past and future sins and those sins which took place knowingly or unknowngly and forgive me for exceeding the limits and those that You know more than me. You are the beginning and the end and besides You there is no one else worthy of worship".(Abu Dawood)"O Allah, help me so that I can make your Dhikr, glorify You and worship You properly".(Abu Dawood)It is stated in the hadith that the person who recites Ayatul Qursi after every Salaat, death is the only barrier for him between him and Jannah.(Behaqi in Sahbatul Iman)Uqba bin Amr (R.A.) states that Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) ordered him to recite the Muwoozhita (i.e. the four Quls) after every fard Salaat.(Mishkat)After every Salaat recite SubhanAllah 33 times, Alhamdulillah 33 times and Allahu Akbar 34 times.Many virtues are recorded in the Ahadith regarding the recitation of the above,the other method is to recite the above dua ,The third method is to recite SubhanAllah 25 Alhamdulillah 25 times and Allahu Akbar 25 times. (All the above are narrated in Mishkat)Abu Amama (R.A.) narrates from Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) that he Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) was asked which dua has the greatest acceptance. To this, he replied that the dua recited in the latter part of the night (Tahajjud time) and after the fard Salaat. (Tirmidhi)I mention the Purity of the Owner, i.e. Allah who is Pure" OR  "O Allah, I seek Your refuge (protection) from your displeasure through. Your pleasure and from Your punishment with forgiveness. I seek refuge from all calamities and punishments. I have no words to Praise You as You have praised Yourself.(Hisnul Hasin)"O Allah, grant me the achievements of my goals (objects and purposes) for it is only with Your aid that I can attack the enemy and with Your assistance that I can declare Jihaad on them".(Hisnul Hasin)"O Allah, save me from the fire (Jahannam)."If a person recites the above dua and dies the same night, he will be saved from Jahannam and if he recites it seven times after Fajr Salaat before speaking to anyone and if he dies on that same day, he will be saved from Jahannam. (Mishkat from Abu Dawood).Muslim Taimi (R.A.) narrates from Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) to recite the above seven times before speaking to anyone."Besides Allah there is no other worthy of worship. He is Alone and has no partner. His is the Kingdom and to Him is all praise, in His hands is good, He gives and takes life (gives death) and He has power overall things".(Mishkat)In another hadith Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) stated that if a person recites the following dua 10 times while sitting in the Tashahudd position, then for each time ten rewards are written for him and ten sins are removed from the Name-Amal and he will be saved from every evil thing and the accursed Satan and no other sin besides shirk will be able to destroy him. In relation to actions, he will be superior to all other people. If anyone recites more than the above, he will go further and that is a different matter."O Allah, I seek a good entry and a good exit. We take Allah's name to enter and to exit and rely on Him who is our Lord.After this dua greet the members of the household.(Mishkat)Jaabir (R.A.) narrates that Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) stated that when a man enters his home and makes Dhikr (remembers Allah) and also makes Dhikr at meal times, then Satan says to his colleagues that the night cannot be spent there nor can they partake of the peoples food and if no Dhikr was made on entering the house, then Satan says to his colleagues that they have an opportunity to spend the night there and if no Dhikr was made at meal times, then Satan tells his colleagues that they will be able to stay there and also get food. (Mishkat, Chapter on food)I depart with Allah's name, relying on Him. It is Allah who saves us from sins with His guidance (the ability to do so)." (Tirmidhi)It is stated in the hadith that if a person recites the above dua and departs then there is an (unseen) procalamation that his need will be fullfilled and that he will be protected from any harm or injury. On hearing this dua, the Satan goes away from the place and refrains from troubling the reciting person.(Tirmidhi)"O Allah, I seek refuge in You from misleading or being misled or oppressing or being oppressed or from being ignorant or bearing the result of ignorance".(Mishkat)"There is none worthy of worship besides Allah. He is all by Himself. He has no partner. His is the Kingdom, to Him is all praise. He gives and takes life. He is all by Himself. He will not die. In His hands is all good and He has control (power) over all things".It is stated in the hadith that if a person reads the above dua in the market place, Allah writes ten lakh rewards for him and forgives ten lakh sins and raises his status by ten lakh and a house is prepared for him in Jannah.N.B. one lakh = 100,000 (Tirmidhi, Ibn Maja)"I entered in the name of Allah, I seek refuge in You (Allah) for the good in the bazaar and for the good of what is in it (the bazaar). O Allah, I seek refuge in you from false oaths and deception in transaction".(Hisnul Hasin)Additionally:On returning from the bazaar, recite any ten ayats of the Qur'an (i.e. from anywhere) (Hisnul Hasin from Tabarani)In the name of Allah and with the blessings of Allah I begin (eating)".(Mustadrak) "In the name of Allah in the beginning and end".By not reciting Bismillah, Satan has an opportunity of partake in the food.(Mishkat)"All praise belongs to Allah, who fed us and quenched our thirst and made us Muslims".(Ibn Al Sunni)"All praise belongs to Allah who filled our stomachs and quenched our thirst, rewarded us and gave us plentiful".Note: If the meals are commenced with the above dua, then there will be no accountability of the food eaten on the Day of Qiyamat.(Hisnul Hasin from Haam)"O Allah, You grant us blessings in it and grant us better than it".(Tirmidhi)"All Praise belongs to Allah who granted this meal, (which I received) without my power or effort".All previous sins are forgiven if this dua is recited after meals.(Mishkat, Kitabul-li-baas)"All praise belongs to Allah who is Omnipresent, Pure and full of Blessings. O Lord, we are eating thinking we cannot be without it nor independent of it, nor can we do without it".(Bukhari)"O Allah, grant us blessings in it".(Tirmidhi)"O Allah, feed him for he has fed me and quench his thirst for he has quenched my thirst".(Muslim)"(May) the righteous partake of your food and the angels of mercy descend upon you and those who are fasting break their fast with you.(Hisnul Hasin)Also recite the above dua which praises Allah and thanks Him."O Allah, grant him Your blessings in his sustenance, forgive him and have mercy on him".(Mishkat)Drink water or anything else that is halal whilst sitting with two or three breaths and do not breathe or blow in the container. When drinking,recite, بِسْمِ اللَّهِand when finished recite الْحَمْدُ لِلَّهِ(Mishkat)."O Allah, I seek beneficial knowledge, wide sustenance and cure from all ailments from You".(Hisnul Hasin)"O Allah, I have fasted for You and from the sustenance given by You, I break the fast".(Abu Dawood)"O Allah, I seek by your mercy which encompasses everything, that You forgive my sins".(Hisnul Hasin) "The thirst has quenched and left wetness and with the will of Allah, reward is proven (certain)" (Abu Dawood etc)."May the fasting persons make Iftari with you, the righteous partake in your meals and the angels send mercy on you". (Hisnul Hasin Ibn Maja etc)"All praise belongs to Allah who has clothed me without my effort or strength"."O Allah, all praise is to You, just as You have dressed me, I seek Your blessings of it and the blessings of what it is made of and I seek protection and Your refuge from all evil and the evil of that which it is made of".(Mishkat)Umar (R.A.) stated that Prophet Mohammad (SAW.) said that if a person recites the following dua when dressing in new clothing and gives the old clothing in charity, then Allah will protect him both in this life and the Aakhirah and he will be under Allah's cover (i.e. he will be protected from all calamities and his sins will be hidden).(Mishkat)"All praise belongs to Allah who adorned me with clothing by which I cover (hide) my private areas and by which I obtain beauty in my life".Note: While removing clothing recite "Bismillah" as Satan does not look at the private parts due to this.(Hisnul Hasin)"May Allah prolong your life so that this clothing become old and may Allah give you other clothing after this".(Hisnul Hasin from Abu Dawood)"O Allah, just as You have made my external features beautiful, make my character beautiful as well".(Hisnul Hasin) "O Allah, I seek the good in it from You and the goodness in the habit and character in it/her and seek refuge in You from its/her evil habits and character".Note: Recite the above dua whilst holding the forehead of the bride for Barakaat (blessings) and if buying a camel, recite while holding its hump. (Mishkat from Abu Dawood and Ibn Maja)"May Allah grant you Barakaat (blessings) and descend His blessings on both of you and keep you united".(Ahmed, Tirmidhi)"I am having relations in the name of Allah. O Allah save us from Satan and keep him away from the children You grant us". The child that is born after the recitation of this dua will never be harmed by Satan.(Bukhari, Muslim)Note: This dua must be read for if Allah's name is not taken, the Satan's sperm enters with the man's (As in marginal notes of Hisnul Hasin)When the sperm comes out, recite the following dua in the heart:"O Allah, let Satan not be part of the children You grant us"."Say that All praise belongs to Allah who has no children nor any partner in His ownership, nor any dependent, and in the proper manner we mention His greatness".(Hisnul Hasin)I seek refuge in Allah from this (its) evil.""O Allah, let this moon (month) pass over us with blessings, Iman, safety, and in the belief of Islam. Grant us the ability to act on the actions that You love and Pleases You. (O moon) My Lord and Your Lord is Allah".(Hisnul Hasin from Ibn Habban)"(I make) Allah responsible for your deen, your trustworthiness and for the results of your actions".(Tirmidhi)"May Allah make piety part of your journey, forgive your sins and fulfil the purpose of the journey".(Tirmidhi)"O Allah, let his journey be covered quickly and most easily".(Tirmidhi)"I leave your responsibility to Allah (leave you in his hands) in whose protection nothing can be lost (destroyed, damaged) when He protects".(Hisnul Hasin)"O Allah, it is with Your help that I attack (the enemy) and with Your help I defend and with Your help I depart".(Hisnul Hasin)recite:"Bismillah" and when sitting on the back of the animal or a seat recite Alhamdulillah and then the following Ayah:"Allah is pure, He has given control and without His power we would not have any control Without doubt we are to return to him:(Surah Zakhruf)"O Allah, You are pure, surely I have oppressed myself so forgive me for You are the only One Who forgives sins". After reciting this it is Mustahab to smile.(Mishkat)"O Allah, we seek goodness from You and piety from this journey and (the ability to do) good actions by which You are pleased. O Allah, ease this journey for us and make us transverse the road quickly. O Allah, You are our companion in this journey and deputy (guardian) over our household whom we left behind. O Allah, I seek refuge in You from the difficulties of the journey and from seeing bad things and from a bad return at home and household and from the dua of the oppressed".Note: It is Mustahab to perform two rakaats Nafl Salaat before commencing a journey.(Kitabul Askar-Li-Nawawi)When alighting اللَّهُ أَكْبَرُ and when passing an area where there is water recite بِسْمِ اللَّهِ and in the event of an accident or the animals feet slipping recite لَا إِلَهَ إِلَّا اللَّهُ وَاللَّهُ أَكْبَرُ (Hisnul Hasin)"In the name of Allah, it moves and stops. Definitely my Lord is forgiving and merciful and the Kuffar have not recognised Him as they should, whereas on the Day of Qiyamah the whole earth will be in His fist and the skies folded in His right hand. He is Pure and Superior (lofty) from the belief which the Mushrikeen hold (have)".(Hisnul Hasin)"I seek refuge in Allah by His complete words from the evils of the creation".By reciting this dua, no harm will befall on the person.(Muslim)"O Allah, You are the Lord of the seven skies and all the things that are under these skies and the seven planets and whatever is over these and of Satan who misled and all those misled by him and for the wind and all that it blows. Thus we seek the good of this town and the good of its members (people) and seek refuge from its evil and the evil of its members and from the evils of whatever is in it".(Hisnul Hasin from Ibn Habban)"O Allah, You grant us good in it (the city/populated area)".(Hisnul Hasin from Tabarani)"O Allah, grant us the fruit of this place and create love in the people for us and create love in our hearts for the righteous people (of this area)".(Hisnul Hasin from Tabarani)"Oh Earth, your Lord, and my Lord is Allah. I seek refuge in Allah from the evil (of your nights) and those evils created in you and that which moves in you and seek refuge in Allah from the lions, snakes, scorpions and from the evils of the dwellers of the city and from the father and children".(Hisnul Hasin from Abu Dawood)"The heaven has heared our praise of Allah and also heard our testification that He favours us and keeps us in good condition. Our Lord stay with us and grant us your favours and I make dua to seek refuge from Allah from Jahannam (hell fire)".(Hisnul Hasin from Muslim etc)It is also narrated that this dua be recited three times in a raised voice.(Hisnul Hasin from Mustahab)Note:Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) stated that if a person on journey refrains from worldly affairs in his heart and focuses his attention to Allah and remembers Him, the angels stay with him throughout the journey and if he recites imaginary poetry or does any futile thing then Satan stays with him during his journey.(Hisnul Hasin)Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) told Jabir bin Mutim (R.A.) to recite the following five Suras when on journey:Every Surah should commence with "Bismillah" and Surah Naas should end with "Bismillah" as well, thus reciting "Bismillah" six times.Jabir (R.A.) states: "When I went out on journey (and although I was wealthy and had more merchandise than my companions), my conditions were worse than them, but from the time I began reciting these surahs, on return my condition was better than all of them, and I had most provisions of the journey".(Hisnul Hasin)When returning from a journey one should sit on the mode of conveyance and recite above dua1,On departing, recite all journey duas and be concerned about the etiquettes of a journey and on every ascend recite "Allahu-Akbar" thrice then recite dua2:"There is none worthy of worship besides Allah who has no partner, His is the Kingdom and to him is all praise, for He has created everything. We are those returning, repenting and obedient to Allah, performing Sajda, praising Allah, Allah has made truth (fullfilled) His promise and aided His servant and defeated the enemy armies Alone."(Mishkat)"We are returning, repenting and obedient to Allah, praising Him".(Hisnul Hisn)Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.)'s blessed habit was to return from a journey during chast time within the city. He would first go to the Masjid, perform two rakaats Salaats. Thereafter he would stay in the Masjid for a little while and then go home.(Bukhari, Muslim)Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) loved to journey on Thursdays.(Bukhari)"I have come back, I have come back, I seek forgiveness from Allah with such a repentance that leaves me with no sin".(Hisnul Hasin from Abi Yala)"All praise belongs to Allah who has saved me from such a condition which is afflicted on you and favoured me over many creations". The virtues of this dua is that the reciter will be saved from the difficulties he has seen.(Mishkat)Read the dua softly so that the person in difficulty may not hear it, on the other hand if the person in difficulty is engaged in sin then it should be read aloud so that they may learn a lesson."Allah keep you laughing" (Bukhari, Muslim)"O Allah, we make you the turner of the (enemies) chest (heart) and seek refuge in You from their evils".(Abu Dawood)"O Allah, save our honour and remove the fear and keep us safe"(Hisnul Hasin)"O Allah, You are pure, I praise You and testify that there is none worthy of worship besides You. I seek forgiveness and pardon from You". If there was good talk in the gathering, this dua will seal it and if there was futile and vain talk, then this dua will recompense for it. (Tirmidhi Targib)It is stated in some narrations that this dua should be read thrice.(Hisnul Hasin)"O Allah, I hope for Your mercy, do not leave me for even the duration of an eye blink (duration) and correct my total condition. Besides You there is none worthy of worship".(Hisnul Hasin)"Allah is sufficient for us and He is the Best Guardian". (Quran, Surah Al-Imraan)"Allah is my Lord, I do not ascribe anything unto Him". (Hisnul Hasin from Abu Dawood)"O Alive and everlasting One, I beseech You by Your mercy".(Mustadrak Hakim)"O Allah, there is none worthy of worship besides You. You are Pure, definitely I have oppressed my soul by sinning".The Qur'an states that these words were recited when Yunus (A.S.) called upon Allah from the belly of the fish. Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) stated in a hadith that when any Muslim makes this dua via these words to Allah, then Allah surely accepts his duas.(Tirmidhi etc)It means that these words are so beneficial and useful that big/great grievances, depression and sorrow are easily removed in its stride.Abdullah bin Abbas (R.A.) narrates that Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) stated that if a person constantly makes "Astaghfar", then Allah removes every difficulty, frees him from every sorrow and makes a means for him to receive sustencance from places that he never thought of.(Mishkat from Ahmad)"O Allah, you are the Most Forgiving, and One who loves forgiving, therefore forgive me". (Tirmidhi) "May Allah love you for whom you have loved me".(Abu Dawood)"May Allah grant you (in return) a good reward". (Mishkat)"You have paid my debt, may Allah give you plentiful (in this world and in the Askhirat)"(Hisnul Hasin)"All praise belongs to Allah by whose favour good things are protected". (Hisnul Hasin from Ibn Maja)"Allah is deserving (worthy) of praise under all circumstances". (Hisnul Hasin from Ibn Maja)"O Allah, the One who returns the lost, by Your power and awe return what I have lost, for surely I have received it as Your gift and favour (boon)". (Hisnul Hasin)"I seek Allah's forgiveness".The speed will then reduce. (Nisai)"O Allah, grant blessings in the fruit and grant blessings in our city and grant blessings in the weighing of our harvest (flour)".After the dua give the fruit to the youngest child.(Hisnul Hasin)Alternatively give it to the youngest child in the gathering at that time.(Hisnul Hasin)"I seek refuge in Allah from the accursed Satan". (Mishkat and Hisnul Hasin)"O Allah, listen to our plea (request)". (Muslim)"O Allah, beautify our land (i.e. let flowers grow) and give us peace (ease)".(Abu Awonia)When it rains, seek forgiveness, as pardon plays a major role."O Allah I seek refuge in You from the evil of what has been sent. O Allah, give us beneficial rain". (Hisnul Hasin)"O Allah make it plentiful and beneficial".(Bukhari)"O Allah, let it rain around us and not on us. O Allah, let it rain on the peaks and mountains and the rivers and at the forests". (Tirmidhi, Bukhari, Muslim)"O Allah, do not let us die by Your anger and do not destroy us with Your punishment, but grant us safety".(Tirmidhi)When there is a heavy wind, sit in the position of attahiyat and recite:"O Allah, let it be a mercy and not a punishment. O Allah make it a beneficial and not a destructive wind".(Mishkat)If there is a darkness with the heavy wind, recite Surah Falaq and Surah Naas. (Mishkat)"I am present, O Allah, I am present, there is no partner unto You. I am present. Definitely praise and glory is yours (for You). The Kingdom is also Yours. There is no partner for You".(Mishkat)Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) said that if a Muslim recites the talbiya, then the east and the west, his right and left, every tree and cloud on the earth will recite the talbiya.(Tirmidhi)On completing Talbiya, make dua to Allah for His pleasure, for Jannah and freedom from Jahannam.(Hisnul Hasin)"There is none worthy of worship besides Allah, He is all by Himself, He has no partner, His is the Kingdom, for Him is all praise, He has power over all things. O Allah, make Nur in my heart, in my ears Nur and in my eyes Nur. O Allah open my chest (bossom), make my tasks easy and I seek refuge in You from the whispers of the chest, from disorganisation in working and from the punishment of the grave. O Allah, I seek refuge in You from the evils that come with the wind".(Hisnul Hasin)"Allah is pure and I praise Allah, there is none worthy of worship besides Him, He is the Greatest. Allah is the One who turns us away from sin and grants the ability to do good". (Mishkat from Ibn Maja)When making Qurbani, place the animal facing the Qibla and recite:"I have turned my face to that Being who has created the skies and the Earth in the state of the Straight Deen of Ibrahim - and I am not amongst the Mushrikeen. Definitely, my Salaat, my Ibadat and my living and dying is all for Allah, who is the Lord of the worlds, and who has no partner. I have been ordered (all that passed) I am amongst the Muslimeen (the obedient). O Allah this sacrifice is due to You granting us the ability to do so and it is for You". (Mishkat)After عَنْ mention the name of the person in whose name the sacrifice is made and if it is from oneself then state the name. After this recite and slaughter the animal. بِسْمِ اللَّهِ اللَّهُ أَكْبَرُ(Mishkat)"May peace and Allah's mercy be upon you"."May peace and Allah's blessing be on you as well".Prophet Mohammad (SAW.) replied to the salaam and said that he had received 40 rewards and stated that as a rule that the reward increases in this manner.(Abu Dawood, Mishkat)Return a greeting with at least the same amount of words with which the greeting one used. It is best that the amount of words is increased in the reply."On him be safety, Allah's mercy and blessings".Muslim brethren should shake hands with salaams. Prophet Mohammad (S.A.W.) stated that if two Muslims meet and shake hands, their minor sins are forgiven before they part. (Tirmidhi)It is narrated by Abu Dawood that when Muslims shake hands on meeting, praise Allah and make dua for forgiveness, then they are forgiven. (Mishkat)"All praise is for Allah"."May Allah have mercy on you"."May Allah keep you on hidayat (guidance) and make proper your condition.(Mishkat, Bukhari)If the sneezing person is a woman, the reply is with a kasrah (zer) on the kaaf.If the sneezing person dose not recite "Alhamdulillaah" then it is not necessary to reply but if he does say so then it is waajib reply.If the sneezing person has flu or any other difficulty which results in repeated sneezes then it is not necessary to reply after the third time.(Mishkat)To regard the sneeze as a bad omen: One should not take or see anything as bad omen as it is stated as being Shirk in the hadith.(Hisnul Hasin)"O Allah, you bring into existence the good and only you can remove any bad condition, as the power to do good and prevent from evil is in Your control"."O Allah, save me from haraam and make the halaal sufficient and by your boon/favour make me independent from others".(Mishkat)These words were spoken by Ali (R.A.) taught by Prophet Mohammad (SAW.) when a person expressed a shortfall in his wealth to Ali (R.A.) he said: "Shall I not show you what Prophet Mohammad (SAW) taught me, even if there is a debt equal to that of a huge mountain then Allah will pay it". Ali (R.A.) then recited the above dua.(Tirmidhi)"O Allah I seek refuge in You from worry and grief, I seek refuge in You from hopelessness and laziness, I seek refuge in You from miserliness and cowardice and I seek refuge in You from overwhelming debt and from the force of men".The person stated that he recited this dua and Allah removed all his worries and debts.(Abu Dawood)Abu Saeed Kudri (R.A.) narrates that once a person mentioned to Prophet Mohammad (SAW.) that he was concerned about his major debts. Prophet Mohammad (SAW.) replied "Shall I not show you those words by saying which Allah will remove your concern and pay your debts?" The person asked "What is it, O Messenger of Allah?" Prophet Mohammad (SAW.) told him to recite the following morning and evening:"O Allah, You are my Lord, there is none worthy of worship besides You, You have created me and I am Your servant, I am Your pact and promise, I seek refuge in You to the best of my ability from my evil sins. I testify to Your favours and to my sins, hence forgive me since there is no one else to forgive sins besides You".(Mishkat)The person who recites this dua sincerely in the course of the day and night and dies will be among the people of Jannah. (Bukhari)"There is none worthy of worship besides Allah, who is the affectionate and most helpful. He is pure and is the Lord of the Arsh (throne). All praise belongs to Allah. O Allah, I desire (seek) that which makes Your mercy compulsory and the things that necessitate Your forgiveness, and portion of every good and safety from every sin. O Merciful of the Merciful, forgive (pardon) my sins and remove all my worries and fullfil all my needs as You desire.(Tirmidhi and Ibn Maja)Abdullah bin Auf (R.A.) narrates that Prophet Mohammad (SAW.) said that if a person has a need either from Allah or man, he should perform wudhu properly, perform two rakaats Nawafil Salaat, praise Allah and send Durood to Prophet Mohammad (SAW.) and recite the following dua:"O Allah, with Your knowledge I seek the good, with Your power I seek ability and Your mighty favour for certainly You have the power that I don't have, You know and I do not Know and You Know the unseen. O Allah, in Your knowledge if this work is good for me in this Duniya and the Akhirah (hereafter), then let it be for me, grant me blessings in it and if it is bad for me then keep it far away from me and grant me any destiny that will make me happy".(Mishkat)Whilst reading, think of the matter on handJabir (R.A.) states that Prophet Mohammad (SAW.) taught them the Istikhara dua with such constancy and used to say that when a person is in any dilemma, he should perform two rakaats nawafil Salaat and thereafter recite the following dua:"There is no problem, If Allah wills, He will purge your sins by this illness." (Bukhari)"I ask Allah who is the Lofty and the Lord of the Mighty Throne that He cures you"Prophet Mohammad (SAW.) said that by reciting this dua seven times, the ill person will regain his health and if death occurs then that (death) is a different issue (i.e. death is written it cannot be prevented).(Mishkat)"Definitely we are from Allah and to Him is our return. O Allah, grant reward in my calamity and grant in its place a good substitute". (Muslim) "In the name of Allah, with the blessings of this soil of our land which I mixed with the saliva so that the ailment is cured by the order of our Lord".(Bukhari, Muslim)If there is an infection on the body, wet the Shahaadat finger with saliva from the mouth, place it on the ground and then rub it on the infection while reciting:"I seek refuge in the Being and Power of Allah from the effects of which I am in and from that which I fear".(Hisnul Hasin from Muslim)place the right hand on the pain, recite "Bismillah" thrice and the above dua seven times:"O Lord of the people, remove this pain and cure it, You are the one who cures and there is no one besides You who can cure, grant such a cure that no illness remains"."Ayesha (R.A.) stated that when Prophet Mohammad (SAW.) was ill, he used to recite the four Quls, blow on his hands and pass them over on the back and front. He also recited these surahs, blew on his hands and passed them over his body during his fatal illness". (Bukhari, Muslim)Ayesha (R.A.) stated that when anyone among them had an illness, Prophet Mohammad (SAW.) used to rub the area of the pain reciting the above dua."I seek refuge in Allah with His total words from the evil Satan, from every poisonous animal and from the evil eye". (Bukhari)To soothe children during illness or at any harm recite above dua,If any member of Prophet Mohammad (SAW.)'s household fell ill, he used to recite the the four Quls and blow on them."There is none worthy of worship besides You O Allah, You are pure, I have oppressed my soul".(Mustadrak)Prophet Mohammad (SAW.) said that if an ill person recites the following dua forty times and dies in that illness, he will be rewarded as a martyr and if he regains his health, all his sins will be forgiven."There in none worthy of worship besides Allah, He is the greatest. There is none worthy of worship besides Allah, He is all by Himself.There is none worthy of worship besides Allah. He has no partner with Him. His is the Kingdom and all Praise. He is the one to grant us the ability to save ourselves from sinning and to do good".Prophet Mohammad (SAW.) said that if a person recites the following dua during his illness and dies, then the fire of Jahannam is forbidden for him. "O Allah, forgive me and have mercy on me and let me reach the Companion on high". (Hisnul Hasin)"O Allah, at this (time) of severity of death help me". (Tirmidhi)At the time of death turn the face towards the Qibla and the Majlis (gathering) that is present should say the shahada KALIMA loudly in front of the dying person so that he may hear it and recite it. It is not fard or wajib to recite the shahada at the time of death and if someone did not recite it, then it makes no difference.It is stated in hadith that if the above are the last words of a dying person then he will enter Jannah (i.e. he will be saved from the punishment of sins and there will be no barrier from entering Jannah).(Hinsul Hasin)During the last moments a person from amongst those present should recite Surah Yaseen (as it eases death). (Hisnul Hasin with Marginal notes)"O Allah, forgive (name of the dead person). Make him among the guided ones, raise his status and be his deputy among the grieving. O Lord of the two worlds, forgive us and him and make his grave wide and full of light". Prophet Mohammad (SAW.) recited this dua after the death of Abu Salama (R.A.) after closing his eyes. In place of فُلَانُ state the dead person's name. (Mishkat from Muslim)When recited for another Muslim then in place of فُلَانُ mention the name of the dead person and before the name add a "Laam" with a "Kasrah (Zer)""O Allah, forgive me and him and grant us a better substitute for grief".(Hisnul Hasin)Every person going to the house of the mayyit should recite above dua.Place person on the platform or whilst carrying them recite Bismillah.(Hisnul Hasin from Ibn Abi Shaiba/Mokufaan Ali Ibn Umar (R.A.))This can also be read when any calamity befalls. By saying so, Allah instructs His angels to build a house for His servant in Jannah and to name it "Bait-ul-Hamd" (House of Praise).(Hisnul Hasin from Tirmidhi)"In the name of Allah and with His aid and on the Madhab (deen) of the Rasul of Allah I place him in the grave". (Hisnul Hasin)After the burial recite Surah Fatiha and the beginning of Surah Baqarah at the head side and the last ayats of Surah Baqarah at the feet. (Mishkat)Stay a little while at the grave side and ask Allah for forgiveness for the dead and make dua that he remains firm at the time of questioning by the angels.(Hisnul Hasin from Abu Dawood etc)"Oh inmates of the graves, salaam on you. Allah forgive us and you all. You left first and we will be coming later"."Oh Muslims residing here, salaams on you, by the will of Allah we will also be coming to you. We seek safety for us and you".(Muslim)"Definitely Allah has taken what belongs to Him. He has given us what belongs to Him. He has stipulated a time for everyone (which He does not chance by impatience or plan). Have patience and hope for reward". (Bukhari)Once a scorpion bit Prophet Mohammad (SAW.) while he was in Salaat. On completion of the Salaat he said: "Curse be on the scorpion as it does not leave the person performing Salaat nor anyone else". He then asked for water and salt and dissolved that salt in the water. He rubbed the solution on the wound and kept reciting Surah-al-Kaafiroon, Falaq and Naas.(Hisnul Hasin from Tabarani in Al-Sagheer)Extiunguish the fire by reciting:The author of Hisnul Hasin says that this is proven.(Abu Yala and Ibn Al-Sunni)"There is no problem, O Lord of mankind, remove the difficulty (and) grant relief for you are the One who grants relief. There is no one but You who removes difficulties."Read this and blow 3 times on the right udder and 3 times on the left udder.(Hisn from Abi Shaiba Maqoofaan from Ibn Masood (R.A.)"I take the name of Allah and blow, O Allah remove its heat, cold and sickness Then say by the will of Allah". (Hisn from Nisai etc)"O Allah grant me benefit from my eyesight and keep it (maintain it) till my death and give me power over my enemies and give me aid against those who oppress me".(Hisn)"Our Lord is Allah who is in the skies (worthy of worship). Your name is Pure. Your authority is prevalent in the sky and earth, just as Your Mercy is in the sky thus lower it on earth as well and forgive our sins and errors. You are the Lord of the pure ones thus descend upon this pain a cure (relief) from Your reliefs/cures and descend a Mercy from amongest Your Mercies on this pain.If somone is smitten by a poisonous animal then read Surah Fatiha 7 times and blow on the animal" (Hisn from Tirmidhi)If somone is not mentally stable then read Surah Fatiha blow on that person.(Abu Dawood and Nisani)Blow on the one who has stopped urinating or has stone ailment or any other difficulty."I seek relief taking Allah's great blessed name from all the evils of pulling (pulsating) nerves and from the evils of the hot fire". (Tirmidhi)It is prohibited to speak ill of fever. When Umme Sahabia (R.A.) spoke ill of fever then Prophet Mohammad (SAW) said, "do not abuse fever for it removes the sins of man like the furnace removes the rust from the iron". (Mishkat)"O Lord of all mankind, remove the difficulty and grant relief (for) there is no One but You who grants relief (cure)".(Hisnul Hasin)By blowing is meant, let the two lips meet a little and blow in such a manner that a very little saliva emits. This applies in all cases where blowing is mentioned."O Allah keep me alive as long as is good for me and when death is better for me lift me".(Mishkat)Due to difficulty death is sought but one should never pray for death instead pray above dua."O Allah, You have power (control) and I have no control and You know and I do not know, and You know the condition of the Unseen. Thus if You see (deem fit) that this woman (here mention her name) is good for me concerning my Deen, world and Akhirah then grant me her control (make it possible that I marry her) and if besides her there be (another woman) which is better for me concerning Deen and Akhirah then specify her for me (grant me control over he)".(Hisn)N.B. A woman should read "him" instead of "her".When one desires to make istikhara for marriage, then keep the person in mind whem making niyah. Then do wudhu and perform Salaat. Then praise Allah, mention His Greatness and plea above dua.